What is important to keep in mind, this hyperconnectivity also maintains a chronotopy of bottomless instantaneity.
Indeed, the real-time stream is fundamentally a reconfiguration of temporality, a new construction of experience, which is structures around a desire for ‘nowness’.
But Platform messages are never marked as ‘now’, instead they lie already in the past.
The Platform is nonetheless oriented towards the future, the possibility of something else happening, others in the loop, pure potentiality or unfolding.
This is partly constructed through an aesthetic experience of commitment to the radical now.
Time’s unity is asymmetric: the past present can only be understood for what it was and wasn’t (qua condition and projection to the future that is now present) in its future, while the future present continues to be strictly unknown but can be anticipated and prepared-for.
Furthermore, operations in the future condition the future but do not determine it, past operations do determine their future, which is the present.
Opening the path to other futures means reopening the qualitative dimension of modernity, its aesthetic dimension.
This was the chosen terrain of its avant-gardes: the futurists and constructivists, the surrealists and situationists, the accelerationists and schizomaniacs.
All of which opened up futures that have now been foreclosed.
But: to make three steps forward, two steps back.
There are many resources in the aesthetic alter-modern spaces of the past via which to experiment with steps forward.
What I think is important to remember in all of this, is that when I am trying to be true to myself, I turn “myself” into a genre, with readily recognizable and repeatable tropes.
I can never be authentic, only authentically generic.
I can create and meet a set of established stereotypes of myself.
Being oneself always means being a self-parody, and being a parody of oneself is the process of self-discovery.
Self-parody precedes selfhood.
Seeing ourselves through the ‘eyes’ of this machinic Other who does not and connate have an affective sense of aesthetics is a kind of disenchantment.
We are just stuff in the world for ‘distributed machine cognition’ to look at and make sense of.
The product is a ‘new algorithmic identity’, an identity formation that works through mathematical algorithms to infer categories of identity on otherwise anonymous beings.
It uses statistical commonality models to determine one’s gender, class, or race in an automatic manner at the same time as it defines the actual meaning of gender, class, or race themselves.
Ultimately it moves the practice of identification into an entirely digital, and thus measureable, plane.
The Platform is biopolitics because it is concerned with the administration of life, rejuvenation, and even resurrection.
Furthermore, it is a radicalized form of biopolitics because its goals are ahead of the current normative expectations and extend even to the deceased.
It is a commonly acknowledged view that political power makes a biopolitical turn from simply exercising the sovereign right to kill its subjects without being responsible for their health or life, to governments accepting the obligation to care for the health and welfare of their citizens, to extend their life by administering health services and medical care, securing food supplies, maintaining clean water and air, and so forth.
This has been an enormous shift—from the administration of punishment and death to the administration of biological life, upon which the consent to be governed is founded.
The next logical step would appear to be for society to guarantee perpetual life for its members and then to extend this to the dead: parents and grandparents and so forth—basically everyone.
In the age of the reproducibility of almost everything physical, human presence is one of the few things that cannot be multiplied indefinitely, an asset with inbuilt scarcity.
Presence means to be engaged or occupied with an activity without being hired or employed.
It means more often than not to be locked down in standby mode, as a reserved element for potential engagement, a crowd of extras to provide stochastic weight.
The aura of unalienated, unmediated and precious presence depends on a temporal infrastructure that consists of fractured schedules and dysfunctional and collapsing just-in-time economies in which people frantically try to figure out reverberating asychronicities and the continuous breakdown of riff raff timetables.
It´s junktime, broken down, kaputt on any level.
Junktime is wrecked, discontinuous, distracted and runs on several parallel tracks.
If you tend to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, and if you even manage to be in two wrong places at the same wrong time it means you live within junktime.
With junktime, any causal link is scattered.
The end is before the beginning and the beginning was taken down for copyright violations.
Anything in-between has been slashed because of budget cuts.
Junktime is the material base of the idea of pure unmediated endless presence.
Perhaps the preoccupation with stock footage, serialised stock photography of commodities, all sorts of templates for creative labour, copy and paste, aggregation but also the fascination with corporate aesthetics and the corporation as proxy could be seen as potentially responding to the need to be absent.
All these are proxys that one can use on behalf of oneself or ones work.
Is this some sort of applied absenteeism? A sneaky boycott of constant presence? Using stock footage and templates is kind of the equivalent of periodically saying “awesome” to pretend one is listening to an annoying conversation, while one has left behind laser cut stand-up displays to fake participation and attendance in actually several places.
Derivates are not just a counter-performative time-binding of the present and the future in which the deferring and the displacing of the present into the future prevents the actuality of the present from being constituted as clearly distinct from the inactuality of the future. What is to be added to that determination of derivate pricing qua temporization, is that the constitutive futurity of the differantially organized prepresent of risk pricing is that of the splitting of the future payoff.
Creative knowledge workers – especially if they are freelancers – always have to rely on their environment to acquire new projects.
After each sent email they nervously await the answer. 
If it doesn’t come within two days, they start to worry.
Have they read my mail? Did something go wrong? Or worse, did I say something wrong?
